it's a process called sonoluminescence
the first time I saw sonoluminescence
was in a darkened room I was transfixed
to look at the Sun spherical flask of
fluid and you'd look into the center and
in the center see a glowing blue purple
light which could be seen with the
unaided eye
it looked like a star in the heavens
Seth Putterman called it the star in a
jar a tiny spot of bright light
contained in a flask of liquid
this star in a jar is made when a sound
wave is passed through a small bubble
inside a flask of liquid and this sound
wave makes the bubble do something
remarkable first it expands
then it collapses and this collapse
happened so violently that vapor
molecules trapped inside the bubble slam
together and heat up so much that the
bubble gives off an incredible burst of
heat and light several thousand times a
second giving the appearance of a star
what made the phenomenon so exciting was
the temperature of this star in a jar on
its surface alone the light burns at
tens of thousands of degrees set bottom
are now contemplated a tantalizing
possibility could the call of the
collapsing bubble be even hotter hot
enough for fusion one of the mysteries
of sonoluminescence is to determine
exactly how hot the interior of the
bubble gets in the Sun the interior can
be millions of degrees hot enough to
cause fusion and the thought crossed my
mind that perhaps inside the collapsing
bubble the interior of the bubble might
also get hot enough to cause fusion
if so this would be something truly
amazing I simply bombard in tiny bubbles
with sound waves temperatures of over 10
million degrees would be created a
nuclear fusion the same reaction that
powers the Sun would be happening almost
effortlessly here on earth